# Existential Shitpost: A cause for expression

So it turns out that I’m pretty late to board the ‘Medium’ train. Guess that makes me rare. Get it? Because medium? Bad joke? Okay. It doesn’t matter. What matters is that I’m here. I am here. I am somewhere. Where am I? This is a WHOLE LOT of white space. Seriously, you should see what I’m seeing.

Anyway, on to the more important things in life. I am here for a reason, yes. An actual reason that doesn’t involve bad attempts at metaphysical commentary on this ‘medium’ of expression. Get it? Becau…. aaahh. That’s why they call it Medium. Okay now I get it. Where was I? Oh. Yes. Reason. Before I talk about that, we need a paragraph change. Okay, ready? Okay, here we go…

I am here because on some days I feel like finding out about interesting things. Why? No particular reason. I get these pangs of curiosity where I feel like discovering something unique that no one else has known before. It doesn’t have to be of any importance to anyone. I just like doing it for the satisfaction it gives me. More importantly though, I get REALLY excited whenever I do find something interesting and I feel like blabbering about it for the rest of the day to whoever will listen. And so, much to the delight of my irritated friends and family, I decided to finally scream my lungs away into this wonderful white void. But before I proceed, I must warn you. Read my stories at your own risk. It is a hundred percent not my fault if you’ve come this far and realized what an incredible waste of time this is. However, if you do like reading about what I have to say, please do send in feedback about what you liked and what you didn’t. If you believe something you read is useful, do point it out to me so I can advertise better. Wait… You don’t even know what I want to talk about. Okay, so here’s how I can best describe this experiment.

You know how you always dreamt about being a particle physicist, finding the next big sub-atomic particle and winning the Nobel Prize, or maybe revolutionizing economics by theorizing an alternative to free market Capitalism that negates income inequality and what not? Well, somewhere between that naive little child and your boring little adult life, you probably realized that you’re not quite the Higgs Boson finding, sexy-in-a-lab-coat looking dude. You lost a little bit of that curiosity, the ‘what if’s and the ‘how’s of the world. All the little questions you had in your head when trying to come to terms with the sheer chaos and enigma of life and matter around you. All those questions you never managed to ask? I felt that too. But not anymore. You see, quite by accident, about two years ago I stumbled into a career path that led me to ‘Data Science’. Yes, the one with all the hype and Artificial Intelligence, and the buzzwordy bullshit. That data science. I studied a little during my Master’s and then some more. Seemingly, I began to fall back in love with the curious part of me. The part of me I’d lost while growing into an adult. Yes, the algorithms fascinated me but this whole Medium business isn’t about your fancy machine learning and your Deep Neural Nets. You will find plenty of (wayyy smarter) PhD clad dudes and queens explaining the theory of ML and AI in succinct detail. No. This was and is, about data. This is about chaos and finding order in that chaos. My posts will be about having that faintest glimmer of a question and then trying to find answers to those questions. Only this time, I will be equipped with something more than just the question. I will have data. My posts will primarily be about finding insights in data, and specifically new, unknown data. Data that has probably not been used from an Analytics and Machine Learning perspective before.

Now, fair warning to everyone. I am NOT an authority in Data Science. I am merely about to begin my career in the field. I am not the best coder around so when I show you codes, they will probably not be very optimized or efficient. What this means for me is actually way more than what it means for you. This is a chance to indulge in the part of me that used to love asking questions, to engage in interesting analyses of openly available and scraped data. This project presents a way for me to learn new techniques in data-science, and hone my skills. This is a way for me to use this incredible resource of unprocessed information that is the internet. That’s me. So why are YOU here then? Well, if I’m good at this then hopefully, along the way you could learn something you didn’t know about. Maybe you have a question that you think the data I am working with could possibly answer. Maybe you’re new to the world of Analytics and Data Science and Machine Learning and AI and you want to look at it through the lens of a beginner just like me. Maybe we learn together. You and I.

So that’s that! That was the end of my first and hopefully ONLY the very first of my many stories. From here on, my stories will be about data. Stories of tiny quirks and anomalies. Stories of an attempt to turn this marvelous world of mysteries into facts and understanding. That’s it! Goodbye and see you on the other side!
